The Joe Rogan experience. Um,
has anybody come up with any sort of comprehensive plan or
anything that makes sense where they can viably
repopulate the ocean? I mean,
the idea of stopping and slowing down fishing would be wonderful,
but it's, I mean, if we,
if it really gets to a point where we've got to somehow
or another independently grow these fish and re-introduce them to the wild,
I mean, is there any talk of doing things like that or is it even part.
I think it's impossible. The scale of what's going on right now. Um, you know,
when I was in Japan, they were saying that, oh, we used to go out all, you know,
we could fill up a boat a day now it's, you know, eight days now we have to,
then we have to go out 30 and we're competing with the, the, you know,
the Koreans, the Chinese, the Taiwanese, you know, it's it's and.
Everybody's just going gangbusters. And.
We ha we were using military gear to, you know,
sonar to catch things at this unprecedented rate. It's not sustainable.
I personally don't believe that fishing to feeding this planet
currently, you can do it with fish. I don't think he can do it with,
you know, and we know what's, you know,
that the unethical side of raising, you know, farm animals for this is,
it's just, I think we have to transition to another form.
I think there's going to be, you know, 10 or 12 years,
but I think we're headed that direction and people,
I think what you're seeing now is that there's a direction towards trying to
people want to eat healthier. They want to eat sustainable. And I know,
I know you're a hunter. I mean, I was 102. I hunted fish. And, you know,
I understand like when you come back with the goods,
you come back with an animal and you're feeding your family.
You're feeding your friends. You feel like the man, you don't feel like,
you know, there's something you tap in. That's really primitive in a, in a,
in a,
in a really genuine way that makes us feel good about who we are that you're
providing. And I know that that happened when I was, when I was a fisherman,
you know,
you go hunt a fish with your friends and there's a group thing going on and you
everybody's there. They're enjoying themselves. And it feels wonderful,
but we can't do it with wild fish. And, you know,
with 4% of the biomass being wild animals now, and the rest of it being it's,
it's, naissance sustainable. And I wish it was because
that, that there's something we lost with that,
but we have to transition we're at that period right now,
where we have to figure out how do you feed a planet?
That's the real problem. Right. And not just, how do you feed a planet?
How do you feed a planet that may double its population the next 50 years?
Yeah. Well, it's just total talking 10 billion by 2050.
And we're already at a point where, you know, we're at the.
Yeah. So 20 years past out, it might really be double.
It might be 15 million or excuse me, billion people. Uh, that's.
Crazy. So, you know.
You can have 18 and a half million people in the greater Los Angeles area going
out and hunting for their food or fishing, you know,
so what are we going to eat? You know, and I think the, you know, the,
the way to do it is, you know, drifting more towards plants getting, you know,
I was last week, I was in Loma Linda, California, you know where that's at,
you preferred about one of the blue zones and you know,
so it's the people out there that don't might not know about. It's, uh,
Dan Buettner, uh, geographic fellow, um,
popularized the idea that there's these five geographic regions of the planet
where people live longer and without chronic disease than any other place in the
planet.
So is out there last week at the bar at the brain health and Alzheimer's clinic.
And there's two researches that started when there wasn't one for miles around
and they opened it.
One out of three people in America in the next 10 years are going to be affected
by Alzheimer's either they're going to have it, their mates going to have it.
There would be taken care of somebody who has it, their parents.
So it's going to overtake heart diseases.
Our number one disease that we have the opened up the brain health clinic there
with an Alzheimer clinic.
And nobody came now about half the population.
The seventh day Adventists are vegetarians by religion.
And he go to the grocery store. They don't sell meat. You go to, they have milk,
they have cows milk, but it's on the bottom shelf.
They just have a few things of it. And they, uh,
to find people initially they had to go to San Bernardino across the road,
across the highway.
There there's nothing different geo geologically different between San
Bernardino and Loma Linda. It's the right, you know,
drinking the same water, breathing the same era, but they have a different diet,
but they're living about 10 years longer than everybody you have on San
Bernardino is one of the unhealthiest populations in America.
And on another side of highway Teddy,
you have one of the healthiest populations in the entire world,
and they're living about 10 years on average longer.
They're doing other things too. It's not just diet, it's big factor sleep.
I mean, Dr. Matthew Walker has been on this podcast.
Who's a well-renowned sleep scientist was discussing that it's one of
the biggest corollary, uh, one of the biggest factors where they've,
uh, determined that the less sleep you have,
the higher likelihood you have of Alzheimer's disease. And it's really stark.
Like the numbers are they're, they're, they're pretty undisputable.
Yeah. Well, I agree. There was the four principles, you know, the, the,
his eyes, you know, Dean and ISIS assures I sleep is one of them. Yeah.
Whole foods, plant-based diet, um, support, you know,
the community support and, and exercise. Those are the, those are the big ones.
Yeah.
But out of the 3000 people that they have in the Alzheimer's clinic clinic now
only 19 of them, or, sorry, only 13 of them are vegetarians and three vegans.
So, I mean, you look at, you know, if you look at,
if you break it down the population,
like how many of the 24,000 people there that are vegetarians, about 15%,
you would expect, you know, uh, several hundred of them to be, you know,
with Alzheimer's to be vegetarian.
So, so many of them are following that, uh, seventh day Adventist diet,
which is vegetarian,
but when you're talking about San Bernandino is a very poor community,
unfortunately. And I think, you know,
as well as I do a lot of people in poor communities eat terrible.
It's true when you're eating junk food and sugar and all that crap. I mean,
that, that's one of the primary factors when it comes to poor health and.
Education is related definitely to brain health, unfortunately.
And it says to us to do that, they're stupid.
It's just that they're you're right. They,
they're not that they're not eating as well. They have to, you know,
the first McDonald's was in San Bernardino, you know, it wasn't really, yeah.
There was, we went to the museum there, the McDonald's museum,
they have a McDonald's.
The museum, they have all the Ronald McDonald's from the beginning to the end.
Yeah. Um, yeah,
th th so they've been really good about keeping fast fluid out of, um,
out of Loma Linda for.
Um, isn't there giant concerns, even with large-scale agriculture,
when you talking about mono crops and growing things for 15 billion people,
you're going to need gigantic swaths of land.
It's going to displace a lot of wildlife.
You're going to have a lot of different chemicals get released into the ground,
unless you're doing regenerative farming.
In which case you're going to have to use some animal products anyway,
because you have compost and fertilizer,
you need fish for fertilizer or something that creates nitrogen as well.
There's a lot of issues. Even with large scale agriculture,
when you're growing crops, you're,
you're doing something that's wholly unnatural. If you have, you know,
a thousand acres of corn or soybeans or anything that you're growing in large
scale, that's not, not how nature intends it, nature in tens,
everything to be combined together.
Right. But if you look at the amount of crops that are out there,
the most land is being used to grow crops, to feed animals. So, you know.
Sort of a lot of its being used for feed animals,
a lot of it's being used for corn syrup and a lot of different
[inaudible]. I mean, you've seen king corn, right? That's
, that's pretty crazy when they check your DNA and they find out how much of your DNA is corn based.
And you're like, what, like what is going, or
how much of your, your, your cellular structure is
corn based. It's like how much corn is in your diet. And then you go through the supermarket and go and pick up box after box and read how much corn is in
there. Corn starch, corn syrup, different proteins that they've
extracted from corn.
Well, let me ask you, how do you think, you know, if we have to feed 10,
15 billion people in the future, how do you think, you know,
we should be feeding the population. That's good.
The question, it's a very good question. I have hoped for this, um,
this fake meat, not, not, um,
the plant-based stuff where they're using oils and the,
but the actual physical meat that they can figure out some way to
create meat without animals die. Like I am not a fan of factory farming.
It's the reason why I got into hunting in the first place.
I saw a lot of those pita documentaries,
and I just didn't want to have any part of any of that.
And I know there are ethical ranchers that raise our
animals, grass fed, and they let them roam. And, you know,
um, there's a guy named Joel Salitan who has this, um,
thing called Polyface farms, or he, he teaches people,
regenerative farming methods and teaches people how to let animals be animals.
And there's the polar opposite of factory farming. When you see these,
and I'm sure you've seen some of these disgusting videos of these pig farms,
where they have lakes of sewage attached to these
farms where these pigs are in these warehouses, stacked in one,
on top of the other.
And then they're all their waste goes down through the floor and into these
giant, uh, huge lakes of and.
And they sprayed on the crops. Well.
I don't know if they spray that on the cross, but it leaks into the ground.
They spray the pig and on low on the crop. Oh yeah. Well look,
all that stuff is wrong. I mean, all of it's wrong. I mean,
whether chickens raising chickens like that, or cows like that,
or pigs like that. And there's a reason why they have these ag gag laws.
And those are another thing that are akin in my eyes to the same thing.
That the way we feel about dolphins in captivity, in a place like SeaWorld,
those ag gag laws, agricultural gag laws,
they keep people from divulging the horrors of these factory farms.
And there's, there's gotta be a way to stop those laws. First of all,
th you, you should, they, these places should be transparent.
If there's something there do, that's a boring, it's something they do with you.
You could see the lives of these animals and they're treated in these horrific
ways. It's not necessary. It's not, it's just, they're doing that for profit.
And this is why you can get a chicken sandwich for a dollar 99 or whatever the
it is.
Yeah. I mean, if like, you know, the saying of slaughterhouses that glass walls.
Yes.
Right? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. But.
They're not going back to it though. I mean, so how do you, so lab meet you?
I think lab meat has real potential.
The same way cell phones used to cost a thousand dollars.
Uh, well, more than that, like what was, uh,
what was like one of those big Motorola bricks,
remember those things that like Gordon Gekko had and wall street,
they were really expensive.
Like when he was walking on the beach with that thing, like, wow,
that guy has a ball or he's got a phone he's just walking with no cord.
Now everyone has a phone. I mean, I was in Brazil and, um, you know,
these people were walking around, they had very little money,
but they all had phones.
Cell phones have made their way throughout virtually all of the world, how much?
Four grand, four grand to four. So four grand and 82 was probably what today.
20 probably like 20. Right? Sure. Yeah. It's a lot. Just say,
let's just say it's a lot, even if it's four grand, if,
imagine if a iPhone was four grand P would be going crazy,
the new one's almost two grand and everybody's going crazy.
So I think that sort of technological innovation and improvement,
I think we're going to see that in this sort of factory created meat,
because the original factory created burger that they made,
I believe it was a quarter of a million dollars that it costs to create
one and people ate it and they were like, this is beef. This is like real beef.
I think with innovation there, they could figure out a way to do that.
So we don't ever have to have these factory farming situations. I mean,
I think that's possible. Yeah.
Yeah, no, I think it is too. When I I've talked to us,
some of the people that are working on that. And when you look at how fast
cells can reproduce and we know it's just a matter of scale and getting the
right texture and taste.
Yes. Look, I'm, I, you know,
I'm not under no illusion that what I do is available to everybody.
I go hunting in the mountains. Most people don't want to do that. You know,
and I do it with a bow and arrow. No,
most people don't want to learn how to do that.
They're they don't have it in them. They don't want it.
It's not interesting to me. It is.
If I shoot one elk that has 400 pounds of meat,
one life feeds me for a year. And I feed my friends.
I feed a lot of people.
I give elk meat out to a bunch of people I know under no illusion that
everyone can do that, but this, everyone can't do most of the things that I do.
I just do it because it makes me feel better than going and getting something
that's factory farm.
If I saw what they did to check-ins and I knew that my chicken had come from
these horrific environments and I ate that. I feel sick. Yeah.
And so that's why I became a hunter in the first place.
Yeah. Well, that's, you know what we concern ourselves as like, wait,
how can you like, yeah. You and I can eat you probably better than me, but I,
I can eat how I want to eat.
But doesn't that sound weird? You say, I eat better than, you know.
What you can afford more is what I'm saying.
But I'm telling you, I'm getting my meat from the woods.
Uh, well, I'm not, I'm not saying better.
I'm I'm saying that you could eat how you want. Oh, you easier than me.
I'm just saying I'm not financially. I've seen the, what you have around here.
This nice little cozy a man, Dan, you have down here,
but boys used to see what's out there. It's like the ultimate, uh,
it's a man cave, man. Yeah.
Not cave man, but man cave, man cave man would be, uh,
a giant Neanderthal. Um, but yeah. Um,
it's uh, the conversation between, I mean,
I kind of a gang of friends that are vegan and vegetarian.
One of my best friends is the Ian Edwards. I love him to death. I,
I don't, I don't, um,
dispute that we're in a conundrum.
And then we're in a terrible situation. As a civilization.
We've certainly overpopulated the planet in many.
And we've certainly allowed something to take root in our society that I
think is disgusting. That's factory farming of animals. There's,
there's something vile about it, undeniably vile.
And there's a reason why people are prosecuted for exposing what makes
everybody sick. Look, if they exposed it and say, look,
I'm going to take a picture. I'm gonna tell you,
show you a video of how these cows are living and you take the video and the
cows just wandering around eating grass. No one would give a. Right? Right.
It's when you see these people kicking these cows and when you see them alive,
when like kosher, the way they do that, where they, they,
they have to slice their throat and they have to do it with one cut.
And this is why people want kosher meat, like some ancient,
ridiculous idea of how to dispose of a life. Whew. I mean,
all those things, sick and people, which is the reason why they have those laws,
keeping people who work there from videotaping, exposing it in the first place.